what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose so I forgot
to record an intro for part two of the
you can abstract reasoning video so here
is karma medic from the future you guys
haven't seen part one already check out
the links in the description and I'll
leave a card somewhere up here watch
that video first before you watch part
two if you haven't seen my abstract
reasoning video from last year I'm sure
you'll find that useful as well if you
guys want to follow me on instagram you
can do so out karma medic don't forget
to like this video and subscribe to my
channel for more you cat content coming
soon and without further ado let's jump
straight to answering questions live on
camera alright we're doing great so far
we're doing great yes I like these
questions so this is do this as this is
to that what do we have here star half
star star two and a half stars becomes
one two three four five shapes maybe two
and a half stars becomes five total
shapes so maybe here we have one two
three four five six seven eight so this
needs to have four stars in it one two
three no one two three four alright so
we have a bunch of half stars that make
up so my rule what I think is this is
two and a half stars two and a half
times two is five total shapes one two
three four five so here we have eight
shape so I would expect to see four
stars here so what I see here is one two
and then two halves here in two halves
here that make up a total of four I
think that's correct I don't have a
better rule and I've probably already
spent too much time so if I think I have
a rule I'm gonna go for it let's see if
I got it right correct let's go let's go
all right set a and set B so this is a
very oddly shaped set of patterns okay
so let's look at the gray squares one
four three three four four okay and here
we have 2 4 6 8 2 4 6 8 2 4 6 8 case
there's always eight gray things here
okay and we can see that this like
mushroom has the head at the top and the
stalk at the bottom for all the ones
here whereas here the mushroom is like
upside down with the head at the bottom
and the thing at the top we have these
encasing lines which are either 1 1 2 3
two three four one two three four one
two three four five six seven okay so
I'm not gonna worry about that
so look I probably don't have the full
sets of rules here but I believe I have
enough of the rule in order to come up
and answer these questions so this one
here the mushroom is from the top with
the stock down and it has two four six
eight in it so I'm gonna go with B this
one is sideways which doesn't have care
in either A or B so I'm gonna go with
neither this one is upside down similar
to a but it has two four six eight in it
which I know it doesn't have so I'm
gonna go with neither this one here is
the right way up like B and has two four
six eight so I'm gonna go with B and
this one is again similar to be about
two four two four six eight and nine so
I'm gonna go with neither
alright so perfect I managed to score
five out of five on this even though I
didn't have the perfect rule so look the
actual rule was sent a less than 5
squared dots in the shape sent B 8
squared dots in the upside-down shape so
I had to set B rule down quite well but
set a I didn't have it perfect but I
kind of knew what was going on enough to
answer these questions so like I said
before I looked at these shapes I knew
that I probably didn't have the perfect
rule but this is such a time-based test
such a time heavy test that if you think
you have a decent rule if you think you
have at least half of the rule just go
for it you'll probably end up scoring 4
out of 5 or 5 out of 5 which figure
completes the series this should be easy
so there's always five in this dice like
thing let's go one step at a time you
see what's going on top left this arrow
here is pointing top left top right
bottom right bottom left so now we know
that this shape here has to point top
left so nope yes yes yes yes
a is eliminated so look at this one
right down left this is missing one here
right down left right no it's fine so
this one needs to point to the top right
top right top right top right nope nope
so I know it has to be one of these two
so look at the middle one down up down
up so now when you speed down these are
both down so I can't eliminate let's
move on to this right no no no it's no
needs to be pointing both
left which is this one so I know it's C
so notice not all the arrows move at 90
degree increments some of them move at
but again just notice what's going on
one shape at a time and you should be
able to figure out the pattern quite
easily all right so another set a set B
question 1 diamond 1 square 2 diamonds
rectangle and here 2 diamonds one
rectangle okay so maybe we know that a
diamond is always present with a
rectangle
except it's not here so we know that's
not the case on the right hand side
maybe as this is on the left hand side
mm not really sure what's going on from
a slette me move on to B 3 4 2 3 4 5
okay here we have 4 and triangle 3 on
triangle for no triangle I'm gonna try
and look at it from a bird's eye view
not really like count anything but to
see the overall picture see if anything
comes to light generally I'm getting the
vibe that the diamonds are more on the
right-hand side here
whereas they're more on the left-hand
side here now clearly this is not the
perfect rule because there's this
anomaly here let's see 2 4 6 2 4 6 2 4 6
2 4 2 2 4 6
please beyond here 2 4 5 2 4 5 2 4 5
okay so this is again a great example of
like getting overwhelmed with
information and them trying to confuse
me I was looking at the diamonds I was
looking at the triangles I was looking
at the shapes whereas it was so much
simpler it's just about hard versus even
total number of shapes so which of the
following belongs and say hey I know
needs to be even so 2 4 6 boom so these
are must all be odd let's double check
to make sure 2 4 6 so what's the
difference between these two then that
would make one of them fit into shape a
and to set a 2 to 2 here there's always
less diamonds than other shapes whereas
here there's always more diamonds than
other shapes so I'm gonna think that
that might also play a role so I'm gonna
go with this one first a % B I want it
to be odd so 3 here 2 4 6 and 3 here so
3 3 but I want more diamonds than shapes
so here more diamonds than shapes would
be this one
wait did I do that right here No so for
say I want less diamonds than other
shapes so it'd be this one here set a so
again I want less diamonds down shapes
so like this one and I want it to be
even
two four six seven so no two four six
seven so no three two four six and less
diamonds than shapes so that one there
now I want more diamonds in shapes and I
want to be odd so for no 2 4 6 no 2 for
no so it must be this one I don't even
have to check the other ones and then
finally I want less diamonds than shapes
and I want it to be even so nope nope
nope
2 4 6 less diamonds and shapes yes all
right
please be right wow that was a difficult
one I was a proper difficult one let's
see if I got it right
5 on 5 correct let's go now let's see if
I had the actual pattern down correctly
say a even number of shapes and there
are more or equal non diamond shapes and
diamonds so look I got the rule right it
took me a bit of time but I figured it
out very tricky magnified area treatment
let's keep going we're doing well which
figure completes this series nice I love
these ones because they're so simple so
black here skips two spaces and goes
there
skips two spaces and goes there skips
two spaces and goes here over here so
now I would expect it to be here so
black needs to be in the last second to
last one great they knew that I would go
that first so even though I followed
this black square it's resulted in
nothing useful for me because all of
these shapes have the blacks were in the
right place so now these stars
right left left blank left left right
double hmm interesting
where are these stars okay I'm not gonna
focus on the stars cuz I'm not sure
what's going on the striped one moves
again two spaces so again two space so
they all seem to move two spaces the
white one moves to again the cross one
moves to so they all move two spaces so
what I want is gray here followed by
black
by striped so gray in the middle
followed by black followed by striped
which is the same as this one and they
have the white and the cross the same
which means now I have to figure out
what's going on with the stars in order
to distinguish these two shapes so
bottom left star stays bottom left goes
right maybe two two two two so now I
would expect the bottom I want to go up
does that make sense and the bottom left
want to stay where it is it so it's
rotating like this like that's that's
thing then this is pivoting like that
and that's ting then this is pivoting
exam that's staying so yeah I'd expect
bottom left and top right okay so I
think it's this one wow that's a really
bad description of what's going on with
the Stars and but let's see if I have it
right it was kind of like one moves in
pivots and other one moves in pivots and
the other one moves in pivots it yeah
that's kind of confusing let's see if I
got it right okay I did so let's see if
they can explain it better than me the
stars are bit more complicated in each
box only one star moves at a time that's
what I was talking about for example one
to the bottom left stars still in the
top right star moves okay cool here's
the description if you want it next
question which figure completes the
series black and white black and white
black and white black and white okay
white triangle black triangle white
triangle black triangle black square
white square black square white square
okay so colors are inverting every time
and then also the position of the
triangle and the square is flipping from
top to bottom as well so what I want to
see in the final picture is a black
square on the bottom and a white
triangle on top great okay let's try
that again so then yeah okay I can also
see the square is moving down and then
it moves right and then moves up so now
I want to see a black square in the top
left such this one I don't even need to
check anything else
can move on you can see the black square
moves down here and then right and then
UPS and I need it to be left if you know
the pattern based on one object moving
and you know that's it just click it
just move on
next question let's go I know I've said
that a million times but I really want
to like I want to drill that into
everyone who's taking the u-cat it's
such a time constraint test the second
you think you have a pattern the second
you think you know what's going on trust
your gut and go with it set a three to
two for three
something something for three for one so
in set a in the top half there's more
dots than the bottom half so I'm
assuming in set B it's gonna be the
opposite which it definitely seems to be
the case so that's what I'm gonna go
with gonna go with four now so this has
more on the top than on the bottom
that's gonna be a this has more on the
top than the bottom it's gonna be a this
has more on the bottom than the top it's
gonna be B this has more on the bottom
than the top is gonna be B and this is
the same is gonna be B now having done
this really quickly I think that this
rule is a bit too simple for it to be
like that let's see three out of five
let's see what's going on oh my goodness
the total number of dots in the square
add up to prime numbers and there are
more dots in the top half of the square
the total number of dots add up to
square numbers now look let me say that
that is a really difficult pattern and I
think it would be quite difficult for
someone to figure that out in the short
period of time that you have to figure
these out as long as we found that there
was a difference in the number of
thoughts on the top and bottom half
we've managed to score the majority of
the points and I think that that's fine
all right I'm gonna do one more because
I want to end on a question where I get
a hundred percent so let's see what's
going on here we have two circles and a
triangle in each one the triangle is
rotating 45 degrees each time no no no
okay
and the circles are doing what moving
down moving up moving down moving up and
then moving left and moving right
correct yeah so now you can expect this
arrow to be pointing right down left up
so that is the first three a B or C and
then these dots so let's follow this
black one here it has moved down one
down to one right and so now I'm gonna
expect it to move
the bottom right so I so it's either A
or B and then the other circle over here
has moved up one then up one then left
one so left again which are both of
these and I need to figure out what's
going on with the colors so black gray
black gray so seems like if they're in
the corners they're black if they're not
in the corners they're gray so now I can
expect them to be black which they both
aren't great and then the triangle white
black white black I'm gonna expect it to
be white now so it must be this one all
right guys so that is where I'm gonna
call it for today I've been doing an
abstract reasoning questions for quite a
long time now I hope you guys have
managed to see my thought process in
this video how it is that I'm actually
thinking about the questions and as I go
through them what it is that I'm looking
for what it is that I'm using to exclude
certain answers and just my technique
and general thinking as I do the
questions live on camera if you guys
have enjoyed this video do leave a like
on it do subscribe to the channel to see
more UK count on medical school content
from me share this video with anyone
who's preparing for the you can't I'm
sure that they'll find it very helpful
you have any feedback I'll leave it in a
comment down below
good luck practicing for the UK and I'll
see you in the next video peace